[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: Another metaphor
of thinking about what happens
with flattening strategies, and I love
using this metaphor, because we all hate
traffic, is to imagine you're on the
highway, and we've got three lanes open.
And then there's some accident or
some construction, and
they have to close two of the lanes.
The concatAll strategy, which isn't
very good to use for traffic for
obvious reasons, because each one of
those lanes is an infinite observable,
would say, okay, everybody on
the left lane go through first and
then everybody in the right lane and
then everybody on those two lanes open.
You never use that in traffic because,
well, there's never gonna
stop being traffic on the left lane,
they're both two infinite observables.
You wouldn't use concatAll as
a traffic managing strategy, however,
this next function I'm gonna
show you guys is merge all.
Wait, I lied.
Sorry, we're gonna come back to that.
I wanna show you all the functions you
need to know in order to understand
the drag and
drop example I showed you earlier.
And so I've showed you concatAll in
the drag and drop example, but I also
showed you this takeUntil function, which
I didn't explain very clearly, right.
What a takeUntil function does is it takes
an observable that's a source observable,
and it takes an observable
that's a stop observable, and
every single time the source observable
emits something, it forwards that on.
But as soon as the stop observable emits
a single value, whether it's on next,
on error, or on, well, on next or
on completed, it completes
the overall observable that's taking these
two observables and putting them together.
So takeUntil creates a new observable,
just like map and filter.
And it doesn't change any observables.
It takes a source observable and
a stop observable,
creates a new observable with all of
the data from the source observable, and
completes that observable as soon as
the stop observable fires a value.
And under the hood,
unsubscribes by calling dispose
on both the source and stop.
Does that make sense?
So that's how we can take
two infinite observables and
combine them together to create
an observable that ends.
And this is the use case that the Gang
of Four weren't really thinking about.
They were like, well, you've got
these infinite observables, I mean,
what can you do with that?
You can really just listen to it
until you're not interested anymore,
until you call dispose.
This function right here is why I haven't
unsubscribed from an event in five years.
I have not typed the words,
remove event listener in five years,
cuz I don't need to.
This is, it's really important
you understand this function,
because this is the first big
mental step we're gonna make,
to thinking about asynchronous
programming very differently.
With a DOM event listener, all you
can do is, you can say, whoa, whoa,
whoa, unsubscribe, right.
That's what you have to do.
You have to say look,
I don't want any more data, unsubscribe.
Another way of thinking about that,
a different way of thinking about it is,
well, I'm gonna take the stream of data
that I want, and under some condition,
I'm gonna create another observable
that's gonna fire when some other
asynchronous condition.
Sorry, let me rewind.
Here's how you usually do with events.
So you add an event listener to an event,
and then you'll start consuming the data.
But then at some point,
when some event happens, cuz that's
how everything happens in JavaScript.
Some event happens.
You'll decide that you don't want
the data in that event anymore.
And then you'll call removeEventListener.
That's how we code today.
But notice that we're gonna call
removeEventListener when some event
happens, cuz that's how
things happen in JavaScript.
Somebody mouse clicks, a timer fires, some
asynchronous entry happens, and then under
certain condition, we're going to decide
we want to unhook from that event and
stop listening to it anymore.
Well, why don't we just take the source
event, the thing we're interested in,
and use takeUntil and combine it
together with the stop collection.
And then we don't have to
add a bunch of handlers and
state to track whether we're
listening to something anymore.
We can just declaratively take these
two streams, combine them together, and
cause the source to end
when we want it to end.
That's different than unsubscribing,
right.
When I call subscription.dispose,
I'm saying, I don't want the data anymore.
But if I take my source collection and
I use takeUntil to combine it together
with whatever event happens when I'm
supposed to stop listening, well,
then I've created an observable
that completes when I want it to.
Don't unsubscribe from events.
Create streams of data that
complete when you want them to.
That's the big mental leap
we're going to make today.
We're not going to bother to write
state machines, like, if this happened,
then unhook my event listener, and then if
that happened, hook my event listener up.
We're not going to do that anymore.
We are going to create new
events from existing events, and
we're going to create those events such
that they end when we want them to.
Got a question in the back.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, we got a few,
here that are piling up.
Will on completion even trigger
when observable is running in time
asynchronously?
>> Jafar Husain: Yes.
On completion can always fire, and
that just indicates that
no more data will arrive.
>> Speaker 2: You kinda clarified,
we will not know when the stream will
complete as it's waiting in time?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, you have no
idea when observable's going to end.
If you're the consumer, and
you're getting information pushed to you,
if I'm pushing information to her, she
has no inkling of when I'm going to stop
throwing cakes at her, she has no idea.
It's only when she receives an explicit
message, I'm done, no more cake,
that she knows for certain.
Any other questions?
>> Speaker 2: The takeUntil emit on
complete as soon as the stop collection
emits the first item, or
will it wait until the stop
collection emits on complete?
>> Jafar Husain: At the very first item,
good question.
So the question is, will the on complete
happen on the observable that comes out
takeUntil as soon as as the stop
collection calls on next, or
will it wait till the stop
collection calls on complete?
And the answer is, on next.
As soon as anything comes out of that
stop collection, on next or on complete,
it will complete the overall value.
Now, if the stop
collection threw an error,
the overall observable
would end with that error.
We always forward errors along,
we never swallow errors.
So if either the source collection or
stop collection, like, errored,
called on error, then the observable
that we've created will on error.
Yep?
>> Speaker 3: Would the source collection
keep feeding data that's now just kind of
being ignored, or will it know to
stop feeding data, or don't we care?
>> Jafar Husain: Well, what happens is,
as soon as the takeUntil operator,
which has got these two observables that's
combining together for somebody else.
Think of it that way,
each of these functions are like
one step along the chain.
Think of it as a guy who's got an
observable and he's pulling items out and
translating them and
handing them off like a hot potato, right.
So takeUntil has got two observables.
And it's listening,
every time a source item comes through,
it just hands that along.
But then as soon as a stop item
comes along, what does it do?
Well, it calls on completed to the next
guy and says, no more data is arriving.
But then it takes the subscription objects
it's got from the source collection and
the stop collection, and it calls dispose.
Well, in the case of where
the source collection sends a value,
it'll call dispose on the stop collection.
Because there's no need to call
dispose on the source collection,
because it's just said on completed.
No need to say, hey,
I don't want anymore data, if I just told
you I'm not gonna give you anymore data.
So stop collection, because it hasn't
said, I'm done, we would turn around and
we would call dispose on that, cuz we're
not interested in the data anymore.
Cuz we just told the guy down the line,
we're never going to
give you anymore data.
Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, that's great.
>> Jafar Husain: Another question?
>> Speaker 2: I think you
just covered this here.
The stop collection value is irrelevant?
It'll just trigger a done for
the source observable?
>> Jafar Husain: Yes, totally irrelevant.
Totally gets lost.
Doesn't get forwarded along
the stop collection value.
So again, I want to put
an exclamation point on this.
We're going to learn today how to
declaratively create event streams
that end when we want them to end.
Not have to build state machines
where in certain conditions,
we unhook explicitly
using our event listener.
And we're going to get code that's a lot
simpler with very few moving pieces, okay.
So just like the mouse drag
example we saw earlier.
Yeah, another question?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, could you hook up
an auto complete box that might listen for
return from the server until
a new keypress event occurs?
>> Jafar Husain: Absolutely.
Yes, you could, what he's talking
about is an auto complete,
is he asking me to do it or
is he asking whether can be done?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
asking if it could be done.
>> Jafar Husain: Absolutely.
So let's say we're
feeding an auto complete box with
results from the server, and
maybe it's like arriving
over a web socket.
And a web socket is a great example
of something that we can adapt to
an observable interface, right?
As information is coming
over the web socket,
we're going to call on next,
on next, on next.
And we might fill up the list, but
then as soon as somebody presses a key,
we could just stop and
close the web socket.
Does that make sense?
Because I'm the producer.
As soon as she says to me explicitly,
I don't want any more data,
that's an opportunity for me as the
producer to potentially cancel anything
that I'm doing to produce data for her.
Let's say I've got an order out for
more cakes.
I'm relentless, I'm ordering more cakes
for her and she's like whoa, whoa.
Well, I'm just going to pick up
the phone and cancel that order.
And that turns out to
be a very useful thing.
Because a lot of the times, the operations
that we execute in order to produce
asynchronous data can be very expensive,
particularly when you're
talking about IO operations.
Let's say I've got an open web socket.
That's not cheap.
Web sockets aren't free.
They take resources.
If she says she doesn't want any more
cake, I'm going to close that web socket,
because I might be getting the cake from
some other entirely different web server.
Mixing my metaphors,
but you get the point.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Can you use
concatAll on the stop collection?
>> Jafar Husain: concatAll on this
stop collection or concatAll-
>> Speaker 2: For the stop collection.
>> Jafar Husain: It's a little
bit of a confusing question,
because concatAll only works on
an observable of observables.
And in this case, we don't have
an observable of observables,
we just have two observables.
That's not the same as
an observable of observables.
With an observable of observables,
you have a stream of
observables arriving over time.
Here, I just got two observables
in my hot little hands.
And I'm listening to one,
well, I'm listening to both.
And as soon as the source collection
sends data, I move it along.
But if he's asking if you can use
concatAll on the result of a takeUntil,
yes cuz you can use concatAll
on every observable.
It's safe to use concatAll on
the result of a takeUntil,
cuz the whole point of a takeUntil is
that that observable might at least end.
So because that observable might
at least end, we never know for
certain if an observable is going to end.
But in this case, we're using TakeUntil.
So presumably, we expect under
certain circumstances, it might end.
Then it's totally safe to
use that in a concatAll.
Does that makes sense?
But you would never want to use
an infinite observable in a concatAll,
because you'll never get to
the observables down the line.